Next on the list,
we'll cover some details about for loops.
And as we discussed at
the beginning of class,
the loop that does not
exist is the do while.
But there are some different
ways we can use for
loops to do some dynamic
things within the logic.
I am looking at the for.go file
in the basic syntax directory.
Once again, I'll be uncommenting
the whole file and starting at the top.
So our basic for loop is gonna
look super similar to JavaScript.
And this is one of the only occasions
where you're gonna see semicolons hanging
out in Go.
And so if we have an integer,
assign it to a value of one.
Bar i assigned to one, we have three
statements that instantiate a for loop.
The first is.
This one up here, we're setting
the initial value of i to one.
And then we're saying hey,
keep going in this for
loop until i reaches 100,
is less than or equal to 100.
And then for every iteration
increment the variable by one.
We wanna go ahead and run this code,
open up our terminal.
We're gonna go run, we are in basic
syntax code and then our for loop.
So when we run Go you'll see that our for
loop has printed out all
of the integers to 100.
Option two is we can actually kill both of
the statements to the left and the right.
So on this top one, if we review
the conditionals in the middle, for
if i is less than or equal to 100.
In the second version here,
the behavior of this for
loop will actually turn out
kind of like a while loop.
So while i is less than or equal to 100,
do the stuff that's in the middle.
So even though we don't actually have
a while loop syntax, we can make a for
loop behave a little bit differently.
Save and rerun.
And then this last one here,
which is my favorite and
a really powerful version of our for
loop uses the range keyword.
And so on line 29 we have a sentence.
It is assigned to the value
of this as a sentence.
And then our for loop takes
a couple additional arguments here.
So we're kind of circling back to that
structure that we saw with the if blocks,
where we have a couple different
variables on the left.
And then we have our shorthand
syntax with the colon equal sign.
Which means that these variables
are getting assigned to whatever's on
the right-hand side.
So indexing letter is getting assigned
to the range keyword, which means,
I'm gonna iterate over a thing.
And then what are we iterating over?
We're iterating over my sentence,
which is a string.
So Go is allowing us to treat a string
kind of like a collection of things,
like an array.
And so we're iterating over every
element which is in this string,
so we're iterating over
each of the letters.
So once we're in the for loop here,
I want to use the function print
line function to print index.
And then that actual index value,
and then a letter.
And then whatever thing we're
looking at within our sentence.
I'm gonna save this and run it.
I wanna call attention to some interesting
behavior that we're gonna see here.
So we're iterating over the sentence.
Our sentence is a series of letters,
but you'll notice that the thing we're
printing out is actually two numbers.
So on the left-hand side,
we're seeing a series of integers that
increment, those are the index values.
And then on the right-hand side, we're
actually seeing integers, not letters,
which is surprising.
So behind the scenes,
similar to how when you're talking
about what from to print line returns.
We're talking about bytes here, we're not
actually talking about the letter itself.
And this is where type conversion
can come back and really handy.
So if I actually do want
the string version of my letter.
We can circle into this for loop here, and
then wrap our letter in the word string.
Run this again.
>> Think you need one more-
>> Thank you,
I do need one more parentheses.
So now you'll see that actually the more
expected behavior of the index on the left
and then the letter on the right.
Takeaways from this
particular structure though,
is really to keep an eye
on that range keyword.
Range indicates, okay,
we wanna iterate over something.
I don't have a set number of conditionals.
We're not working with a classic for
loop like this.
I want to kind of for
each my way around a particular thing,
in this case it's a sentence.